[Music]
the aerated water of the Falls creates
prized feeding grounds
the currents are fierce these 35-grand
fluff balls must learn fast or face
being swept away
[Music]
Mumm leads them down the side of the
force
[Music]
their goal is a rocky island
mom and dad gather their chicks
and they're off
[Music]
ducklings downy feathers trapped air
like a lifejacket as they Bob across the
surface
[Music]
that's a good start
the one chick is swept away
[Music]
look frantically for that missing Dudley
and the chaos they have to make a
difficult choice would risk everything
for a rescue or keep their other chick
safe
they push across the final current to
the back
mom makes a break for it
one lung chick struggles through
swiftly followed by dad
[Music]
at first penguins with chicks circulate
on the outside avoiding the pressure
within as the weather worsens they'll
all have to look for a place to tuck in
eventually a huge huddle forms
while those in the center are warm and
protected those on the outside are still
struggling
to share the heat around the Penguins
take tiny steps to change position
weaves of movement ripple through the
huddle giving everyone a chance to have
a go in the center the huddle is so
efficient penguins in the inner core can
even overheat
as these penguins tried to cool down the
colony starts to break up the collapse
act as a release valve shedding excess
heat
but it's dangerous for the chair as
everyone moves position some mothers
topple in the crush
she tries to stop her full weight
falling on her chick getting back up is
especially difficult with a chick
nestled in her pouch
rkf finally pays off
[Music]
she and her Czech rejoined the huddle as
it starts to reform
not all have been so lucky
[Music]
this penguin has been searching for her
lost chick
[Music]
[Laughter]
she hopes it might still be alive
[Music]
our pouch is the only lifesaver she
knows
a female companion shows her concern
[Music]
the mother invested everything into her
check to lose it is a tragedy
but the first gorilla to catch my eye
isn't the baby it's his dad
an incredible sight Jim in akhirat ways
played more than three times my weight
and he's sitting on the branch that is
no thick up in my heart these gorillas
have a bigger territorial range than
their mountain gorillas cousins they
also spend more time in the trees which
means their range extends upwards as
well as I works in forests like this you
know they're just constantly searching
for food the fact that they climb trees
so frequently goes assure that a lot of
their food is right up there
however treetops dining doesn't always
go to plan
[Music]
these touch-me-not
balsam have sprung up to cover the
woodland floor
each night the leaves go limp as the
balsam exudes any excess moisture in the
waterlogged soils of the Lake District
this is a handy adaptation
[Music]
soon their blues unfurl
as the petals of these strange shaped
flowers drop off seed pots begin to form
these pots are the favorite food of the
netted carpet moth caterpillar although
it was once thought to be extinct
the netted carpet moth survives here in
the leg district its last remaining
stronghold touch-me-not balsam is their
only source of food
[Music]
these plants have a surprise in store
their seed heads explode
it's how they became known as
touch-me-not but nobody told the
caterpillars this
[Music]
the caterpillars have no warning when
these little bombs go off it's not just
seeds that get hurled across the forest
floor
[Music]
[Applause]
oh my god one is gone
[Music]
the mothers try in vain but they can't
contain all three as they save one
another washes away
Oh God still going and the baby is gone
soon all three are being swept
downstream fast through the crocodile
infested waters
the currents even too much for the
mothers
they have to let their babies go
[Applause]
you can't see how they can peaceably
survive
oh good let's go let's go let's go
you can hear the poor female oh kappa no
no no race like all the big femurs are
running
okay one baby's out yeah the other one
is here
Wow they're two babies actually here wow
they're really tough come on big females
come in
oh they're coming down
I hope they were seven because they will
get tired and if a crop rubs them bugs
if the poor mothers just don't know what
to do they have no way of lifting them
out and David can't even help
[Music]
oh come on females get in and save the
babies
[Music]
the riverbank is sheer and the babies
are weak and terrified
[Music]
oh man that is so relieving
it's so joyful to see all of them again
coming back together
[Music]